When the Apostle Paul was teaching Jews in the synagogue in Thessalonica, he was accurate
and convincing.
The count at Acts 17, 2 and 3, says that he reasoned with them from the scriptures, explaining
and proving by references that it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from
the dead.
As a result of Paul's teaching, some of the Jews became Christians.
That will help us to be accurate and convincing when we teach.
We must consult reliable sources, use those sources properly, and reason on the evidence
with our audience.
Let's say you're giving a public talk about the last days and you read the following
quote regarding pestilence from the 1996 edition of the Encyclopedia Americana.
It is estimated that more than 100 million cases of malaria occur each year.
In some places, nearly the entire population is infected.
Is the Encyclopedia Americana a reliable source?
Yes.
Is the source up to date?
No.
When referring to a scientific discovery, a news report, a person's experience, or other
information as evidence, make sure that your sources are trustworthy and up to date.
Additionally, be sure to use sources properly.
Don't overstate or exaggerate facts and figures.
Also, we must apply scriptures in harmony with their context, the Bible's overall message,
and the publications of the Faithful and Discrete Slave.
Let's see if you can identify a problem in the following scenario.
After Babylon the Great is destroyed, Jehovah's people will continue to dwell in peace.
What happens next?
In Ezekiel, chapter 38 and 39, we find a thrilling prophecy regarding Gog of the land of
Megag.
What will Gog of Megag do?
Notice chapter 38 verse 11.
You will say, I will invade the land of unprotected settlements.
I will come against those living in security, without disturbance.
All of them living in settlements unprotected by walls, bars, or gates.
So as we can see, Gog of Megag, which represents Satan the Devil, will attack Jehovah's people.
This in turn will provoke a reaction from the sovereign Lord Jehovah himself.
What do you think about what this brother said?
Was his explanation of Gog of Megag in harmony with our recent publications?
No.
Let's give him another chance.
I will come against those living in security, without disturbance.
All of them living in settlements unprotected by walls, bars, or gates.
Yes, Gog of Megag, which represents a coalition of nations, will attack Jehovah's people.
This in turn will provoke a reaction from the sovereign Lord Jehovah himself.
Now how can we reason with people on the facts so that we're not only accurate, but also
convincing?
Let's look in on an informal setting.
So based on that, do you think humans evolved over created?
Both.
I think God created simple organisms and then let them evolve.
That doesn't make any sense.
It's either one or the other.
Creation is much more logical.
How far will that conversation go?
We can't force our view on others, but we can reason with them on the evidence.
Let's watch another example.
So based on that, do you think humans evolved or were created?
Both.
I think God created simple organisms and then let them evolve.
That's an interesting view.
When I think about the remarkable complexity of life, I find a Bible verse to be helpful.
It's here at Hebrews chapter 3, verse 4.
Of course, every house is constructed by someone, but the one who constructed all things
is God.
We would not assume that something like a phone could come about by chance, right?
Of course not.
That wouldn't make sense.
Right.
Complex design is the product of an intelligent mind.
Of course, if your listener poses a question and you don't know the answer, offer to research
the topic and return later.
By using trustworthy evidence to help our listeners arrive at the right conclusions, we may be
able to help them on to the road to life.